

# Key terminology
<a name="key-definitions"></a>

This chapter explains terminology that will help you understand what Amazon Bedrock offers and how it works. Read through the following list to understand generative AI terminology and Amazon Bedrock's fundamental capabilities:
+ **Foundation model (FM)** – An AI model with a large number of parameters and trained on a massive amount of diverse data. A foundation model can generate a variety of responses for a wide range of use cases. Foundation models can generate text or image, and can also convert input into *embeddings*. For more information about foundation models, see [Supported foundation models in Amazon Bedrock](models-supported.md).
+ **Base model** – A foundation model that is packaged by a provider and ready to use. Amazon Bedrock offers a variety of industry-leading foundation models from leading providers. For more information, see [Supported foundation models in Amazon Bedrock](models-supported.md).
+ **Model inference** – The process of a foundation model generating an output (response) from a given input (prompt). For more information, see [Making inference requests](inference.md).
+ **Prompt** – An input provided to a model to guide it to generate an appropriate response or output for the input. For example, a text prompt can consist of a single line for the model to respond to, or it can detail instructions or a task for the model to perform. The prompt can contain the context of the task, examples of outputs, or text for a model to use in its response. Prompts can be used to carry out tasks such as classification, question answering, code generation, creative writing, and more. For more information, see [Prompt engineering concepts](prompt-engineering-guidelines.md).
+ **Token** – A sequence of characters that a model can interpret or predict as a single unit of meaning. For example, with text models, a token could correspond not just to a word, but also to a part of a word with grammatical meaning (such as "-ed"), a punctuation mark (such as "?"), or a common phrase (such as "a lot").
+ **Model parameters** – Values that define a model and its behavior in interpreting input and generating responses. Model parameters are controlled and updated by providers. You can also update model parameters to create a new model through the process of *model customization*.
+ **Inference parameters** – Values that can be adjusted during **model inference** to influence a response. Inference parameters can affect how varied responses are and can also limit the length of a response or the occurrence of specified sequences. For more information and definitions of specific inference parameters, see [Influence response generation with inference parameters](inference-parameters.md).
+ **Playground** – A user-friendly graphical interface in the AWS Management Console in which you can experiment with running model inference to familiarize yourself with Amazon Bedrock. Use the playground to test out the effects of different models, configurations, and inference parameters on the responses generated for different prompts that you enter. For more information, see [Generate responses in the console using playgrounds](playgrounds.md).
+ **Embedding** – The process of condensing information by transforming input into a vector of numerical values, known as the **embeddings**, to compare the similarity between different objects by using a shared numerical representation. For example, sentences can be compared to determine the similarity in meaning, images can be compared to determine visual similarity, or text and image can be compared to see if they're relevant to each other. You can also combine text and image inputs into an averaged embeddings vector if it's relevant to your use case. For more information, see [Making inference requests](inference.md) and [Retrieve data and generate AI responses with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases](knowledge-base.md).
+ **Orchestration** – The process of coordinating between foundation models and enterprise data and applications to carry out a task. For more information, see [Automate tasks in your application using AI agents](agents.md).
+ **Agent** – An application that carries out orchestrations through cyclically interpreting inputs and producing outputs by using a foundation model. An agent can be used to carry out customer requests. For more information, see [Automate tasks in your application using AI agents](agents.md).
+ **Retrieval augmented generation (RAG)** – The process involves:

  1. Querying and retrieving information from a data source

  1. Augmenting a prompt with this information to provide better context to the foundation model

  1. Obtaining a better response from the foundation model using the additional context

  For more information, see [Retrieve data and generate AI responses with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases](knowledge-base.md).
+ **Model customization** – The process of using training data to adjust the model parameter values in a base model to create a **custom model**. Examples of model customization include **Fine-tuning**, which uses labeled data (inputs and corresponding outputs) to adjust model parameters. For more information about model customization techniques available in Amazon Bedrock, see [Customize your model to improve its performance for your use case](custom-models.md).
+ **Hyperparameters** – Values that can be adjusted for **model customization** to control the training process and, consequently, the output custom model. For more information and definitions of specific hyperparameters, see [Custom model hyperparameters](custom-models-hp.md).
+ **Model evaluation** – The process of evaluating and comparing model outputs to determine the model that is best suited for a use case. For more information, see [Evaluate the performance of Amazon Bedrock resources](evaluation.md).
+ **Provisioned Throughput** – A level of throughput that you purchase for a base or custom model to increase the amount and/or rate of tokens processed during model inference. When you purchase Provisioned Throughput for a model, a **provisioned model** is created that can be used to carry out model inference. For more information, see [Increase model invocation capacity with Provisioned Throughput in Amazon Bedrock](prov-throughput.md).