

# API keys reference
<a name="api-keys-reference"></a>

Generate an Amazon Bedrock API key to call the Amazon Bedrock API. The key authenticates your identity when you make requests.

**Note**  
For audit and compliance purposes, all API calls are logged in AWS CloudTrail. Amazon Bedrock API keys are passed as authorization headers to API requests and aren’t logged.  
Amazon Bedrock API keys are limited to [Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Amazon_Bedrock.html) and [Amazon Bedrock Runtime](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Amazon_Bedrock_Runtime.html) actions. You can't use them with the following API operations:  
[InvokeModelWithBidirectionalStream](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_runtime_InvokeModelWithBidirectionalStream.html).
[Agents for Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Agents_for_Amazon_Bedrock.html) or [Agents for Amazon Bedrock Runtime](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Agents_for_Amazon_Bedrock.html) API operations.
[Data Automation for Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Data_Automation_for_Amazon_Bedrock.html) or [Runtime for Amazon Bedrock Data Automation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_Operations_Runtime_for_Amazon_Bedrock_Data_Automation) API operations.

Amazon Bedrock allows you to generate the following kinds of Amazon Bedrock API keys:
+ **Short-term** – Create an Amazon Bedrock API key that lasts as long as your session (and no longer than 12 hours). You should already have an [IAM principal](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction_identity-management.html#intro-structure-terms) set up with the proper permissions to use Amazon Bedrock. This option is preferred over long-term keys for production environments that require regular changing of credentials for greater security.

  Short term keys have the following properties:
  + Valid for the shorter of the following values:
    + 12 hours
    + The duration of the session generated by the IAM principal used to generate the key.
  + Inherit the permissions attached to the principal used to generate the key.
  + Can be used only in the AWS Region from which you generated it.
+ **Long-term** – Create an Amazon Bedrock API key with permissions to make basic API requests in Amazon Bedrock. This easy one-click option lets you quickly begin exploring the Amazon Bedrock API without needing to understand the underlying security infrastructure or manually configuring AWS Identity and Access Management permissions. If you're trying out Amazon Bedrock for the first time, see [Get started with Amazon Bedrock API keys: Generate a 30-day key and make your first API call](getting-started-api-keys.md). This tutorial walks you through creating a long-term key and get started using Amazon Bedrock.
**Warning**  
We strongly recommend restricting the use of Amazon Bedrock API keys for exploration of Amazon Bedrock. When you're ready to incorporate Amazon Bedrock into applications with greater security requirements, you should switch to short-term credentials. For more information, see [Alternatives to long-term access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/security-creds-programmatic-access.html#security-creds-alternatives-to-long-term-access-keys) in the IAM User Guide.

Select a topic to learn more about Amazon Bedrock API keys. There are various options for different types of Amazon Bedrock keys and ways to customize them. For a quickstart tutorial for how to generate a long-term Amazon Bedrock API key and use it for exploratory purposes, see [Get started with Amazon Bedrock API keys: Generate a 30-day key and make your first API call](getting-started-api-keys.md).

**Topics**
+ [How Amazon Bedrock API keys work](api-keys-how.md)
+ [Supported Regions and AWS software development kits (SDKs) for Amazon Bedrock API keys](api-keys-supported.md)
+ [Generate an Amazon Bedrock API key](api-keys-generate.md)
+ [Use an Amazon Bedrock API key](api-keys-use.md)
+ [Modify permissions for long-term and short-term Amazon Bedrock API keys](api-keys-modify.md)
+ [Handle compromised long-term and short-term Amazon Bedrock API keys](api-keys-revoke.md)
+ [Control permissions for generating and using Amazon Bedrock API keys](api-keys-permissions.md)